Responsorial Psalm PS 89:21-22, 25 AND 27

R. (2) For ever I will sing the goodness of the Lord.

“I have found David, my servant;

with my holy oil I have anointed him.

That my hand may always be with him;

and that my arm may make him strong.”

R. For ever I will sing the goodness of the Lord.

“My faithfulness and my mercy shall be with him;

and through my name shall his horn be exalted.

He shall say of me, ‘You are my father,

my God, the Rock, my savior!’“

R. For ever I will sing the goodness of the Lord.

APRIL 17, 2014 | EVENING MASS OF THE LORD'S SUPPER

Holy Thursday

Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper

Lectionary: 39



Reading 1	EX 12:1-8, 11-14

The LORD said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, 

“This month shall stand at the head of your calendar; 

you shall reckon it the first month of the year.

Tell the whole community of Israel: 

On the tenth of this month every one of your families

must procure for itself a lamb, one apiece for each household.

If a family is too small for a whole lamb, 

it shall join the nearest household in procuring one 

and shall share in the lamb 

in proportion to the number of persons who partake of it.

The lamb must be a year-old male and without blemish.

You may take it from either the sheep or the goats.

You shall keep it until the fourteenth day of this month, 

and then, with the whole assembly of Israel present, 

it shall be slaughtered during the evening twilight.

They shall take some of its blood 

and apply it to the two doorposts and the lintel 

of every house in which they partake of the lamb.

That same night they shall eat its roasted flesh 

with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.



“This is how you are to eat it: 

with your loins girt, sandals on your feet and your staff in hand,

you shall eat like those who are in flight.

It is the Passover of the LORD.

For on this same night I will go through Egypt, 

striking down every firstborn of the land, both man and beast,

and executing judgment on all the gods of Egypt—I, the LORD!

But the blood will mark the houses where you are.

Seeing the blood, I will pass over you; 

thus, when I strike the land of Egypt, 

no destructive blow will come upon you.



“This day shall be a memorial feast for you, 

which all your generations shall celebrate 

with pilgrimage to the LORD, as a perpetual institution.”

Reading 2 	1 COR 11:23-26

Brothers and sisters:

I received from the Lord what I also handed on to you, 

that the Lord Jesus, on the night he was handed over, 

took bread, and, after he had given thanks,

broke it and said, “This is my body that is for you.

Do this in remembrance of me.”

In the same way also the cup, after supper, saying, 

“This cup is the new covenant in my blood.

Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.”

For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, 

you proclaim the death of the Lord until he comes.



Responsorial Psalm PS 116:12-13, 15-16BC, 17-18

R/. (cf. 1 Cor 10:16) Our blessing-cup is a communion with the Blood of Christ.

How shall I make a return to the LORD

for all the good he has done for me?

The cup of salvation I will take up,

and I will call upon the name of the LORD.

R/. Our blessing-cup is a communion with the Blood of Christ.

Precious in the eyes of the LORD

is the death of his faithful ones.

I am your servant, the son of your handmaid;

you have loosed my bonds.

R/. Our blessing-cup is a communion with the Blood of Christ.

To you will I offer sacrifice of thanksgiving,

and I will call upon the name of the LORD.

My vows to the LORD I will pay

in the presence of all his people.

R/. Our blessing-cup is a communion with the Blood of Christ.


