Responsorial Psalm PS 118:1-2, 16-17, 22-23

R/ (24) This is the day the Lord has made; let us rejoice and be glad.

or:

R/ Alleluia.

Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good,

for his mercy endures forever.

Let the house of Israel say,

“His mercy endures forever.”

R/ This is the day the Lord has made; let us rejoice and be glad.

or:

R/ Alleluia.

“The right hand of the LORD has struck with power;

the right hand of the LORD is exalted.

I shall not die, but live,

and declare the works of the LORD.”

R/ This is the day the Lord has made; let us rejoice and be glad.

or:

R/ Alleluia.

The stone which the builders rejected

has become the cornerstone.

By the LORD has this been done;

it is wonderful in our eyes.

R/ This is the day the Lord has made; let us rejoice and be glad.

or:

R/ Alleluia.





Reading 2 COL 3:1-4

Brothers and sisters:

If then you were raised with Christ, seek what is above, 

where Christ is seated at the right hand of God.

Think of what is above, not of what is on earth.

For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.

When Christ your life appears,

then you too will appear with him in glory.



Or 1 COR 5:6B-8

Brothers and sisters:

Do you not know that a little yeast leavens all the dough?

Clear out the old yeast,

so that you may become a fresh batch of dough, 

inasmuch as you are unleavened.

For our paschal lamb, Christ, has been sacrificed.

Therefore, let us celebrate the feast, 

not with the old yeast, the yeast of malice and wickedness, 

but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.



Sequence - Victimæ Paschali Laudes

Christians, to the Paschal Victim

Offer your thankful praises!

A Lamb the sheep redeems;

Christ, who only is sinless,

Reconciles sinners to the Father.

Death and life have contended in that combat stupendous:

The Prince of life, who died, reigns immortal.

Speak, Mary, declaring

What you saw, wayfaring.

“The tomb of Christ, who is living,

The glory of Jesus’ resurrection;

bright angels attesting,

The shroud and napkin resting.

Yes, Christ my hope is arisen;

to Galilee he goes before you.”

Christ indeed from death is risen, our new life obtaining.

Have mercy, victor King, ever reigning!

Amen. Alleluia.






